src/data/blogposts/post-1.md, before:

---
id: 65d1f701cdf5b817ea64f3bb
title: Nonreturnable Fees and Grey Area of Spending
summary: A moment of confusion when it comes to reporting the election committee’s operational budget.
slug: nonreturnable-fees-and-grey-area-of-spending
blogpostImg: /v1708259080/my-mini-blog/blogpost_img/blogpost-65d1f701cdf5b817ea64f3bb_2024-02-18-228.jpg
blogthumbImg: /v1708259082/my-mini-blog/blogthumb_img/blogthumb-65d1f701cdf5b817ea64f3bb_2024-02-18-926.jpg
bannerImg: /v1708259078/my-mini-blog/banner_img/banner-65d1f701cdf5b817ea64f3bb_2024-02-18-722.jpg
content: It has been two days since the grand election day of Indonesia. At the time, I was given the opportunity to be part of the election committee in my neighborhood. The event itself was tiring but fun! I got to wrestle with at least 70 sheets of A1 papers and input its data into this app with who knows how many committees out there from Sabang to Marauke (There were 820.161 polling stations if google were accurate). But hey! Chaotic queue aside, I wanna talk about something else that had been bothering me on the weekend before election day!
tags: ['election', 'teamwork', 'real life experience', 'managing money']
createdAt: 2024-02-18T12:08:46.028Z
updatedAt: 2024-02-18T12:08:46.028Z
user: {
    _id: '655c7a2bd2ffdd11ea492d1c',
    name: 'Barry T. Quokka',
}
commentCount: 0
---

Commit message:

feat(savedSlug): change default profile img to jpg, add [savedSlug].astro to load saved posts quickly, add post-1.md content, add calendar.svg and calendar-plus.svg

src/data/blogposts/post-1.md, after:

---
id: 65d1f701cdf5b817ea64f3bb
title: Nonreturnable Fees and Grey Area of Spending
summary: A moment of confusion when it comes to reporting the election committee’s operational budget.
slug: nonreturnable-fees-and-grey-area-of-spending
blogpostImg: /v1708259080/my-mini-blog/blogpost_img/blogpost-65d1f701cdf5b817ea64f3bb_2024-02-18-228.jpg
blogthumbImg: /v1708259082/my-mini-blog/blogthumb_img/blogthumb-65d1f701cdf5b817ea64f3bb_2024-02-18-926.jpg
bannerImg: /v1708259078/my-mini-blog/banner_img/banner-65d1f701cdf5b817ea64f3bb_2024-02-18-722.jpg
content: It has been two days since the grand election day of Indonesia. At the time, I was given the opportunity to be part of the election committee in my neighborhood. The event itself was tiring but fun! I got to wrestle with at least 70 sheets of A1 papers and input its data into this app with who knows how many committees out there from Sabang to Marauke (There were 820.161 polling stations if google were accurate). But hey! Chaotic queue aside, I wanna talk about something else that had been bothering me on the weekend before election day!<br /><br />It’s the operational budget KPU had given us to spend for the success of election&nbsp;day.<br /><br />DUN DUN DUNN!!<br /><br />Nah I won’t talk about conspiracies and some sort of inflammatory content, y’all. It’s just that… KPU had given us four million rupiahs aside from our wage. It was meant to be spent for food, shade cover, tables and chairs, office stationary, renting a printer-scanner, and for us to buy ourselves some vitamins. (seriously, they budget for that, the day was that physically draining!) Okay! So, the budget was clear and it had such specific purpose, what could go wrong with that? Well, the thing is… we could tighten the budget we use and actually had a surplus of money on our hand, right? Lucky isn’t it? Do you see where this stream of mouthful consciousness could go? No you don’t!<br /><br />KPU specifically ordered us to spend all of the money with clear proceedings. Meaning, they required a full report and specific receipts in specific format. Meaning, we gotta spend the money by its intended use in specific manner. Meaning, we gotta be honest and be such exemplary citizens of this nation with its patriotic spirit for the election day, right? Hold on. Let’s rewind for a bit, this is actually troublesome for us.<br /><br />KPU required us to spend all the money, no returning it, with custom receipt only established vendors who had official stamp could grant. There I said it.<br /><br />…<br />So, what is exactly the problem with that?<br /><br />WELL. The budget came just about four days before the election day and we already had all but minor transactions happened already! We already haggled for tents, tables, and chairs; we asked the neighborhood housewives to prepare food for 2 meals and 4 times of snacks… we borrowed the scanner-printer from our local professor (who is actually our lil committee’s number one leader. Hush hush), and then! We bought individual name stamps that all in all had exhausted the office stationary budget already… See, the problem now? That report needed some trickery to be done with so then it could appear honest in national spending book! This is so mind boggling for me. We did not even pocket the money, we just spent money without the foresight of having strict bracket for each category, could you blame us? &colon;'')<br /><br />So here goes the trickery, even though we technically don’t intend to trick. Bureaucracy, am I right? We asked the local catering for their shop’s stamp so we could have a transaction with the housewives for food. We gave tips to the stamp’s printing agency so they gave us receipt for renting printer, even though the budget went to the actual name stamps. We then allocated the rest of office stationary budget… for office stationary but we bought many many unnecessary things, my frugal conscience actually screamed at this one. And then, after we marked up budget for building the polling station, we allocated the actual money to buy plywood boards and wood rafters to build these huge announcement boards. Which were technically part of the polling station. But it stayed for the neighbor’s association’s inventory. And the neighborhood head seemed to be happy for it. Eh.<br /><br />Anyway! It makes me think, you know, how much tax money was spent for office stationary (sorry). How people could easily marked nonreturnable fees up and it actually went to their individual pocket. It makes me think, how people could throw away huge chunk of budget and not feeling remorseful at all because it is part of the written law. Wonder… if government people are numb to such practice. That is all. 
tags: ['election', 'teamwork', 'real life experience', 'managing money']
createdAt: 2024-02-18T12:08:46.028Z
updatedAt: 2024-02-19T12:08:46.028Z
user: {
    _id: '655c7a2bd2ffdd11ea492d1c',
    name: 'Barry T. Quokka',
    photo: "/my-mini-blog/user/default.jpg"
}
commentCount: 0
---
